There are many opportunities in the world of cybersecurity.
It's not about the sheer number of jobs,
but also the types and breadth of work available.
In this session, we'll talk about the opportunities
available and the jobs you can get in cybersecurity.
I'll share a national resource where you can learn more about them.
Currently, we're experiencing a phenomenon known as the cybersecurity skills gap.
This is the number of job openings compared to
the number of cybersecurity people available to fill them.
ISACA, an international professional organization focused on IT, audit,
governance, risk and security conducts an annual survey on the state of cybersecurity.
Their 2020 report demonstrates the challenges of hiring cybersecurity position.
Two-thirds of hiring managers in security say it's hard
to both find and retain cybersecurity talent.
What does a cybersecurity professional look like?
For this answer, we'll check with ISC-squared,
a well-known worldwide cybersecurity certification organization.
They also conduct annual surveys of their members regarding the cybersecurity workforce.
From their 2019 study,
you can see the amount and type of education and
the typical ages for cybersecurity professionals.
For example, you see that you need some level of
education in order to land that cybersecurity job.
Also from the ISC-squared 2019 study,
you can see the top areas hindering
cybersecurity professionals from progressing in their careers,
including costs, career path opportunities,
and lack of knowledge.
To build a career in cybersecurity or technology takes
three things: experience, education, and certifications.
Experience means you need
that hands-on opportunity to learn with the different types of technology.
This can either be on the job through
a classroom or even through cybersecurity competitions.
Education is that formal classroom opportunity where you're
learning from a professor or some type of an instructor to receive a degree.
The third part are certifications like
the Certified Information Systems Security Professional from ISC-squared,
or Certified Information Security Manager from ISACA,
or security plus from CompTIA.
These are all well-known security certifications that can help you land a job.
Also needed to fill a cybersecurity role are
technical skills and get hands on ability on different types of operating systems,
network technologies, or security devices.
Functional knowledge is usually within a particular category,
like healthcare, utilities, or finance.
Then last and probably most important are personal abilities.
The ability to communicate.
You can be the best hacker in the world,
but if you can't explain to people what you've found and how it can be fixed,
you've lost half the battle.
The US National Institute of Standards and Technology, or NIST,
has a National Initiative for Cyber Education called NICE.
Their mission is to energize and promote a robust network,
an ecosystem of cybersecurity education,
training, and workforce development.
The NICE cybersecurity workforce framework is
a nationally focused resource that categorizes and describe cybersecurity work.
On their one pagers website,
they have numerous tip sheets showing the demand for cybersecurity workers,
the value of security certification,
and additional resources as a way of building your cybersecurity career.
A few you can see on their website include cybersecurity competitions,
workforce demand, and cyber ranges.
Use this as another resource as you are building your cybersecurity career.
Use these resources as you're building
your cyber career to develop your path and reach your goals.
Take a few minutes to visit the websites and reflect on
the information that can help you establish or broaden your cyber career.